impromptu speech    , 2 points ,
rhetorical tradition -  instruction , imitation , practice for the art of public speaking
canons - inventions (ideas)  , arrangement , style , memory (public speaking )not public reading
no manuscript - speaking and writing effort, speaking is acquired, writing is learned, invented, 
oral - colloquail vocabulary, limited vocabulary, pause length, vocal variety, visual markers
if not memorized , it can be more interactive with audience, engage them, words are spontaneous generating.
communication orientation rather than performance orientation , performance communication orientation continuum
writing  for the ear.
don't restart your speech, 
practising getting out of jam.
stand-up and move around / replicate your mobility.

***
greet your anxiety to manage it and avoid spiralling
ask questions .
use language which is conversational .
bring yourself into the present moment.not concerned about future state
public speaker , 100 push ups
warm up your voice - use a tongue twister.
we get in our way , by being perfect , get ourselves out
stockpile , just doing it right , not stockpile then same pattern , brain is trying to help again
too much trying to get it right

respond rather than react

dare to be dull --
exchange an imaginary gift - and respond with  - to see as an opportunity to have fun.
yes and ..

slow down and listen
spell to your partner something fun that you are going to do today.
focus and listen , cant be thinking ahead.  : don't just do something , stand there.

structure 1)  problem -> solution -> benefit   opportunity -> solution -> benefit
   2) what , so what , now what  - questions
   
   structure sets you free , take out cognitive load of how to say it.
   
 hostile situation 
1) dont be surprised
2) acknowledged the issue

distributed situation
1) Be mindful of it.
2) imagine doing something . engagement

interrogation
1) have some themes
2) paraphrase . 

many different cultural background.

humour is wonderfully connecting ; very risky , self deprecating is least risky

why 
what advice would you give 

**** body language
flooding smile, sticky eye , big body pivot (completely undivided attention) like a baby , limit the fidget(stop multitasking), use hands0362
3260000

friend category , enemy, potential lover, indifference.

ills 
gossip , judge, negativity, complaining, excuses, embroidery/lying, dogmatism (confusion of fact with opinion)

HAIL  - honesty, authentic, integrity, love

register, timbre, prosody, pace , silence,  pitch, volume , sodcasting.warm up your voice

1) hands go up 
2) too much of content, surely organize , prepare but no improvement
3) say it out loud that you are speaker
4) handshake , feel safe, check hand, muscularity
5) first approach with open hands
6) confidence means with fidelity with trust
7) 

*****






























































































































































































































































